---
title: "Infrastructure as Code approach"
date: 2023-12-13
---
# What is Infrastructure as Code?
Infrastructure as Code (IaC) is a methodology in cloud computing that streamlines the creation and configuration of essential resources for applications. Instead of manually setting up these resources through the cloud provider's user interface, IaC leverages DevOps practices and versioned scripts to define and deploy infrastructure components like networks and virtual machines. Similar to how consistent source code produces the same binary output, an IaC model ensures the replication of identical environments with each deployment, promoting consistency and efficiency.
# Why use IaC?
While it is true that manually creating and configuring resources through the cloud provider's user interface is an option, adopting Infrastructure as Code (IaC) brings forth several advantages that significantly enhance the development and management of applications, especially as they scale. Here's why opting for IaC is beneficial:
## Automation and speed
IaC enables automation of resource provisioning and configuration. This not only speeds up the deployment process but also reduces the likelihood of human error associated with manual configurations. Rapid and consistent deployments are crucial in dynamic development environments.
## Consistency Across Environments and Reproducibility
With IaC, you ensure that development, testing, and production environments are consistent. The same scripts used to deploy resources can be employed across different stages, reducing discrepancies and enhancing predictability.

IaC ensures that the deployment of resources is reproducible. The same set of scripts will consistently generate identical environments, making it easier to replicate configurations and troubleshoot issues across different stages of development.
## Version Control and Collaboration
By using script to define resources for application, version control like git can be apply to the script, allowing teams to track changes, collaborate effectively, and roll back to previous configurations if needed. This enhances teamwork, promotes transparency, and ensures a more controlled development process.

